{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\i\f0\fs44\lang9               Web Designing - \fs40 CSS and CSS 3\par
\i0\fs28 1.\f1  What are the benefits of using CSS? \par
\f0\lang16393 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) have many benefits, including: \par
\i0 1. Separation of content and style: CSS allows developers to separate content from presentation. \par
2. Faster page speed: CSS uses less code, resulting in faster page loading. \par
3. Better user experience: CSS allows for user-friendly formatting. \par
4. Easier maintenance: CSS is easier to maintain and update.\par
5. Greater consistency in design: CSS ensures style elements are applied consistently across multiple web pages. \par
6. More formatting options: CSS allows developers to control the color of text, font style, spacing between paragraphs, and more. \par
7. Search engine optimization benefits: CSS is SEO-friendly. \par
8. Device compatibility: CSS is compatible across devices and screen sizes. \par
\i Other benefits of CSS include: \par
\i0 1. Accessibility\par
2. Lightweight code\par
3. Faster download times\par
4. Ease of presenting different styles to different viewers\par
5. Quicker development time\par
6. Easy formatting changes\par
7. Print-friendly pages\par
8. Platform independence\par
9. CSS minification\par
\b\fs28 2.\f1  What are the disadvantages of CSS? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i Here are some disadvantages of CSS: \par
\i0 1. Cross-browser issues: CSS might not look the same across different web browsers.\par
2. Security concerns: CSS has a limited level of security.\par
3. Limited layout control: CSS has limited control over layouts compared to technologies like JavaScript or CSS Grid and Flexbox.\par
4. File size and performance impact: Larger websites may have a greater file size.\par
5. Learning curve: Learning CSS can be challenging, especially for beginners.\par
\i Other disadvantages of CSS include: \par
\i0 1. Complex layouts\par
2. Over-specificity and overriding styles\par
3. Maintenance challenges\par
4. Complicated syntax for some functionalities\par
\b\fs28 3. \f1 What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 has been split into different sections, called modules. Each of these modules is making its way through the W3C in various stages of the recommendation process. This process has made it much easier for various pieces of CSS3 to be accepted and implemented in the browser by different manufacturers.\par
If you compare this process to what happened with CSS2, where everything was submitted as a single document with all the Cascading Style Sheets information within it, you begin to see the advantages of breaking the recommendation up into smaller, individual pieces. Because each of the modules is being worked on individually, developers enjoy a much wider range of browser support for CSS3 modules.\par
\b\fs28 4.\f1  Name a few CSS style components\f0 .\par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i Here are some CSS style components: \par
\b\i0\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Inline CSS\par
These commands appear on the same line as the HTML component they apply to.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Internal CSS\par
These styles are stored in the head section of an HTML document and apply to the entire document.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  External CSS\par
These styles are stored in a separate file and can be linked to multiple HTML documents.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Tailwind CSS\par
This approach uses utility classes for each CSS property that can be used directly in HTML or JSX.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  CSS preprocessor\par
This can be used to write and organize styles.\par
\b\fs28 5. \f1 What do you understand by CSS opacity? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
In CSS, opacity is a property that determines the transparency of an element. It's the opposite of transparency and indicates how much content will be hidden behind an element. Opacity can be applied to elements with different styling properties. \par
\b\fs28\lang9 6.\f1  How can the background color of an element be changed? \par
\f0\lang16393 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i To change the background color of an element in HTML, you can use the CSS property background-color: \par
\b\i0\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Select the element by its class name or id name.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Apply the background-color property to the element.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Set the background-color property to the desired color name or code.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Place the background-color property inside a style attribute.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Add the style attribute to an HTML element, such as a table, heading, div, or span tag.\par
\i For example, to make the background color of all paragraph elements yellow, you can use the following syntax: \par
\i0 p \{background-color : yellow;\}\par
You can also change the background color of an HTML element by adding an external CSS rule. To do this, you can: \par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Specify the external CSS rule inside style tags or a separate CSS file.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Add the .bg-color class to the body HTML element when the page loads using the classList.add() method.\b\fs22\lang9\par
\fs28\lang16393 7. \f1 How can image repetition of the backup be controlled? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The background-repeat property in CSS controls the repetition of background images. It can be used to repeat images horizontally and vertically, or not at all. To prevent an image from repeating, use the no-repeat value. \par
System image backup is a technique that copies a computer's drives and operating system state at a specific time. This allows the computer to be restored to that state. Some recommend creating a system image every three months, or immediately after updating the operating system or installing new software. \par
\b\fs28 8. \f1  What is the use of the background-position property? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The background-position property in CSS is used to set the starting position of a background image. It can also be used to move a background image or gradient within its container. \par
The background-position property has three types of values: \par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Length values: For example, 100px or 5px\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Percentages: For example, 100% or 5%\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Keywords: For example, "bottom right"\par
The background-position property specifies the position of the top-left corner of the image relative to the top-left corner of the element. The position is relative to the position layer set by background-origin. \par
By default, a background image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally. \par
\b\fs28 9.\f1  Which property controls the image scroll in the background?\par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The background-attachment property has three values: \par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Scroll: The default value. This causes the element to not scroll with its content.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Fixed: The image will stay fixed to the page.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Local: The image will scroll with the rest of the page in the browser window.\b\f1\fs28  \par
\f0 10.\f1  Why should background and color be used as separate properties? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i In CSS, background and color are used as separate properties to improve the legibility of style sheets. The background property is complex, and combining it with color increases the complexity. \par
\i0 Here are some other reasons to use background and color as separate properties: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Avoid conflicts\par
\i0 Specifying background and color properties together helps avoid conflicts with user style sheets.\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Provide contrast\par
\i0 When changing the background or text color, it's a good idea to configure both properties to provide good contrast.\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Specify background-color\par
\i0 If you're specifying an image with text on top, you should also specify a background-color. This makes the text legible if the image doesn't load.\par
\b\fs28 11.\f1  How to center block elements using CSS1? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i To center block elements using CSS1, you can use the <center> tag. This will center all elements within the tag. \par
\i0 You can also center block elements using the following methods: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Text-align: Set the text-align property to center. This can be used for inline elements like links, spans, and images.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Margin: Set the margin-left and margin-right properties to auto.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Display: Set the display property of the containing box to flex.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Align-items: Set the align-items property to center for vertical centering.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Justify-content: Set the justify-content property to center for horizontal centering.\par
\b\i0\fs28\lang9 12.\f1  How to maintain the CSS specifications? \par
\f0\lang16393 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\i The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) maintains CSS specifications. However, there are inconsistencies in the supported specification version. Some browsers even have their own implementation of the specification. \par
\i0 Here are some tips for maintaining CSS: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Keep it consistent\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Keep it readable\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Comment your CSS\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Create logical sections in your stylesheet\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Break large stylesheets into multiple smaller ones\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Use line breaks liberally\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Use separate stylesheets for larger projects\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Use the DRY method\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Use CSS shorthand\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Add multiple classes to your elements\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Here are some tips for improving CSS performance: \par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Write simple selectors\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Avoid excessive animations\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Avoid the @import statement\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Optimize your file sizes\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Avoid base64 bitmap images\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Compress your CSS\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Lazy load your CSS\par
\b\i0\fs28 13. \f1 What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
There are three ways to integrate CSS into a web page: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Inline: Use the style attribute inside HTML elements.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Embedded: Place the code in a STYLE element within the HEAD element.\par
\b\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  Linked/Imported: Place the CSS in an external file and link it via a link element.\par
\b\i0\fs28 14.\f1  What is embedded style sheets? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
An embedded style sheet is a way to define styles for an HTML document in one place. This is done by embedding the style sheet information within the <style></style> tags in the head of the document. \par
Embedded style sheets allow you to address multiple HTML elements at once. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule. \par
\b\fs28 15.\f1  What are the external style sheets? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.\par
\b\fs28 16.\f1  What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\b The advantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :\b0\par
With the help of External Style Sheets, the styles of numerous documents can be organized from one single file.\par
In External Style Sheets, Classes can be made for use on numerous HTML element types in many forms of the site.\par
In complex contexts, Methods like selector and grouping can be implemented to apply styles.\par
\b The disadvantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :\par
\b0 An extra download is essential to import style information for each file.\par
The execution of the file may be deferred till the external style sheet is loaded.\par
While implementing style sheets, we need to test Web pages with multiple browsers in order to check compatibility issues.\par
\b\fs28 17.\f1  What is the meaning of the CSS selector? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
A CSS selector is a pattern of elements that tells a browser which HTML elements to select. CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets. CSS is a computer language for structuring and laying out web pages. \par
CSS selectors are used to select content to style. They select HTML elements based on their type, class, attribute, and id. There are many different types of CSS selectors, each with their own syntax. \par
Some examples of CSS selectors include: #firstname, .intro, p.intro, . \par
\b\fs28 18. \f1 What are the media types allowed by CSS? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) media types include: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 all: Used for all media devices\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 print: Used for printers\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 screen: Used for computer screens, smartphones, tablets, and other similar devices\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 speech: Used for screen readers that read the screen aloud\par
Media queries allow you to apply CSS styles based on a device's general type or other characteristics. For example, you can apply styles based on whether the device is a printer or a screen. You can also apply styles based on screen resolution or browser viewport width. \par
The most common media types are screen, print, and speech. By default, the value all is used. You can specify multiple media types by separating each type using a comma. \par
\b\fs28 19.\f1  What is the rule set? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
A rule set is a collection of rules that work together to evaluate complex data. Rule sets can also be used to: \par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 Transform business documents\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 Identify issues and conditions in a project\par
\b\i\f1\fs28\bullet  \b0\f0\fs24  \i0 Define a search pattern\par
\b\fs28 20. \f1 Create Layouts \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\fs28 Website Layout\par
\fs24 A website is often divided into headers, menus, content and a footer:-\par
\b\i /*Header*/\par
\b0\i0 .header \{\par
  background-color: #F1F1F1;\par
  text-align: center;\par
  padding: 20px;\par
\}\par
\b\i /*Navigation Bar*/\par
\b0\i0 /* The navbar container */\par
.topnav \{\par
  overflow: hidden;\par
  background-color: #333;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Navbar links */\par
.topnav a \{\par
  float: left;\par
  display: block;\par
  color: #f2f2\tab f2;\par
  text-align: center;\par
  padding: 14px 16px;\par
  text-decoration: none;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Links - change color on hover */\par
.topnav a:hover \{\par
  background-color: #ddd;\par
  color: black;\par
\}\par
\b\i /*Content*/\par
\b0\i0 /* Create three equal columns that float next to each other */\par
.column \{\par
  float: left;\par
  width: 33.33%;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Clear floats after the columns */\par
.row:after \{\par
  content: "";\par
  display: table;\par
  clear: both;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Responsive layout - makes the three columns stack on top of each other instead of next to each other on smaller screens (600px wide or less) */\par
@media screen and (max-width: 600px) \{\par
  .column \{\par
    width: 100%;\par
  \}\par
\}\par
\b\i /*Unequal Columns*/\tab\par
\b0\i0 .column \{\par
  float: left;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Left and right column */\par
.column.side \{\par
  width: 25%;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Middle column */\par
.column.middle \{\par
  width: 50%;\par
\}\par
\par
/* Responsive layout - makes the three columns stack on top of each other instead of next to each other */\par
@media screen and (max-width: 600px) \{\par
  .column.side, .column.middle \{\par
    width: 100%;\par
  \}\par
\}\par
\b\i /*Footer*/\par
\b0\i0 .footer \{\par
  background-color: #F1F1F1;\par
  text-align: center;\par
  padding: 10px;\par
\}\b\i\par
\b0\i0\par
\b\fs28\par
\i\fs22\lang9\par
}
 