{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\i\f0\fs44\lang9             Web Designing - HTML\i0\fs40\par
\fs28 1. Are the HTML tags and elements the same thing? \par
Ans. \fs24\par
\b0 HTML tags are used to hold the HTML element. HTML element holds the content. HTML attributes are used to describe the characteristic of an HTML element in detail. Whatever written within a HTML tag are HTML elements.\par
\b\fs28 2. \f1  What are tags and attributes in HTML? \par
\f0\lang16393 Ans.\par
 \b0\fs24 HTML tags are used to hold the HTML element. HTML element holds the content. HTML attributes are used to describe the characteristic of an HTML element in detail. HTML tag starts with < and ends with > Whatever written within a HTML tag are HTML elements.\par
\b\fs28 3. \f1  What are void elements in HTML? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Void elements in HTML are elements that don't have any child nodes, such as nested elements or text nodes. They only have a start tag and can only have attributes. Void elements don't have end tags and don't contain any content. \par
\b\fs28 4. \f1  What are HTML Entities? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
HTML entities are text strings that start with an ampersand (&) and end with a semicolon (;). They are used to display reserved characters and invisible characters. \par
Reserved characters have special meaning in HTML. For example, the browser interprets content with the characters <, >, and & as HTML code. This can break the HTML code and cause unwanted side effects. \par
HTML entities can also replace characters that are not on your keyboard. \par
\b\fs28 5. \f1 What are different types of lists in HTML? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
HTML lists come in two main categories: unordered lists, ordered lists. Each type serves a specific purpose and can be customized to fit your design and content needs.\par
\b Unorder List\par
\b0\lang9 An unordered list starts with the <ul> tag. Each list item starts with the <li> tag.\par
\b Order List\par
\b0 An ordered list starts with the <ol> tag. Each list item starts with the <li> tag.\par
\b\fs28 6.\f1  What is the \lquote class\rquote  attribute in HTML? \par
\f0\lang16393 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The class attribute specifies one or more classnames for an element. The class attribute is mostly used to point to a class in a style sheet. However, it can also be used by a JavaScript (via the HTML DOM) to make changes to HTML elements with a specified class.\par
\b\fs28 7. What is the difference between the \lquote id\rquote  attribute and the \lquote class\rquote  attribute of HTML elements? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Remember the difference between Class and ID: A Class name can be used by multiple HTML elements, while an ID name must only be used by one HTML element within the page.\par
\b\fs28 8. \f1 What are the various formatting tags in HTML? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Text formatting refers to the attributes of text other than the actual text itself. Some other formatting attributes include: Color, Size, Centering, Indenting, Positioning.\par
Here are some HTML formatting tags: \par
1 .<b> or <strong>: Bold text\par
2. <i> or <em>: Italicized text\par
3. <u>: Underlined text\par
4. <del> or <s>: Strike-through text\par
5. <sup> or <sub>: Superscript and subscript text\par
6. <small> or <big>: Small or large font size\par
7. <mark>: Highlighted text\par
8. <strong>: Important text\par
9. <del>: Deleted text\par
10. <ins>: Inserted text\par
\b\fs28 9. How is Cell Padding different from Cell Spacing? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Their difference is the amount of space that the content between cells takes up. Cell padding and cell spacing are two different things. Cell spacing refers to the distance between the cells in a grid layout, and cell padding refers to the space around each cell.\par
\b\fs28 10. How can we club two or more rows or columns into a single row or column in an HTML table? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
It can be done by using the rowspan and colspan attribute in HTML. The rowspan is used to merge or combine the number of cells in a row whereas the colspan is used to merge column cells in a table.\par
\b\fs28 11.\f1  What is the difference between a block-level element and an inline element? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
In HTML, block-level elements always start on a new line and take up the full width available. Inline elements do not start on a new line and only take up as much width as necessary. \par
\b\fs28 12. How to create a Hyperlink in HTML? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The <a> tag defines a hyperlink, which is used to link from one page to another. The most important attribute of the <a> element is the href attribute, which indicates the link's destination. By default, links will appear as follows in all browsers: An unvisited link is underlined and blue.\par
\b Example\par
\b0\lang9 <a href="{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.w3schools.com }}{\fldrslt{https://www.w3schools.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ">Visit W3Schools.com!</a>\par
\b\fs28 13. What is the use of an iframe tag? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
An inline frame (iframe) is a HTML element that loads another HTML page within the document. It essentially puts another webpage within the parent page. They are commonly used for advertisements, embedded videos, web analytics and interactive content.\par
\b\fs28 14. What is the use of a span tag? Explain with example? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
The <span> tag is an inline container used to mark up a part of a text, or a part of a document. The <span> tag is easily styled by CSS or manipulated with JavaScript using the class or id attribute. The <span> tag is much like the <div> element, but <div> is a block-level element and <span> is an inline element.\par
\b\fs28 15. How to insert a picture into a background image of a web page? \par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
To add a picture to the background of a web page, you can use the following methods: \par
\i Background attribute: Use the background attribute in the body tag to set an image as the background of the page. You can specify the image's URL or location.\par
Background-img tag: Use the background-img=" " tag to insert an image in HTML.\par
CSS style: Use the CSS style to set the background image of a web page. Under the CSS <style> tag, add the property background-image. This property sets a graphic such as jpg, png, svg, gif, etc...\par
\b\i0\fs28 16.\f1  How are active links different from normal links?\par
\f0\lang16393 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Active links are hyperlinks that are currently being used by a user. This can happen when the user: \par
1. Hovers over the link with their mouse cursor\par
2. Clicks on the link\par
3. Right-clicks on the link\par
Normal links are hyperlinks that have not yet been interacted with. \par
Active links are essential for navigation within websites and for connecting different online resources. When clicked or tapped by a user, an active link directs them to another webpage or resource. \par
In HTML, a normal link is just a line of code that contains a pointer to another resource. An active link is that line of code in action, opening that other resource. \par
Active links are underlined and red in color. They are active until the point of time you click on them.\b\f1\fs28\lang9  \par
\f0 17. What are the different tags to separate sections of text?\par
Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Here are some HTML tags that can be used to separate text sections:-\par
1. <br>: Separates lines of text\par
2. <p>: Creates a new paragraph\par
3. <blockquote>: Defines a large quoted section\par
4. <h1>\f1\endash <h6>: Separates text into sections or subsections\par
\f0\lang16393 5. \f1\lang9 <hr>: Creates a horizontal line to separate text\par
\f0\lang16393 6. \f1\lang9 <thead>, <tbody>, <tfoot>: Divides an HTML table into multiple sections\par
Other HTML tags include:\f0\lang16393 -\f1\lang9\par
Meta tags: Describe the page's content\par
Head tag: Includes information about SEO, CSS links, scripts, and meta tags\par
Div tag: Divides content into sections, such as images, text, footers, headers, and navigation bars\f0\lang16393 .\par
\b\fs28 18. \f1 What is SVG? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
SVG stands for Scalable Vector Graphics. It's a standard graphics file format for rendering two-dimensional images on the internet. SVG files are known for generating crisp graphics while remaining optimized for search engines. \par
SVG is an XML-based vector image format that supports interactivity and animation. It's different from raster images like PNG or JPEG, which use a grid of tiny pixels to create an image. Vector images can be scaled to any size without losing their resolution. \par
SVG files can be created with image editing software like: Adobe Illustrator, CorelDraw, Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Visio, GIMP. \par
SVG files can also be created by writing the code directly. The filename extensions for SVG files are .svg and .svgz. \par
\b\fs28 19. \f1 What is difference between HTML and XHTML? \par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. It's the standard markup language for creating web pages. HTML describes the structure of a web page and tells the browser how to display the content. \par
XHTML stands for EXtensible HyperText Markup Language. It's a cross between HTML and XML language. XHTML is almost identical to HTML but it is stricter than HTML. \par
 It's supported by all major browsers. \par
\b\fs28 20.\f1  What are logical and physical tags in HTML?\par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
Logical tags tell the browser what kind of text is written inside the tags. They add some logical or semantic value to the text. For example, the <strong> tag is a logical tag that indicates to the visually impaired that there is some emphasis on the text. \par
Physical tags decide the appearance of the text and do not provide any information about the text. For example, the <em> tag is a physical tag that makes text italic. \par
The difference between logical and physical tags is one of the fundamental concepts in HTML. Understanding this difference can have a huge impact on a web designer's way of doing things. \i\fs44\lang9\par
}
 