{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\i\f0\fs44\lang9 Website Designing - HTML 5 - Full Stack\i0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 1. \f1 What are the new tags added in HTML5?\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\b HTML5 has many new tags, including: \par
\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Figure: Used to add an image to a web page with a short description \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Canvas: Used to draw images on the fly \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 HTML Tag: A container tag that contains a beginning tag, content, and an end tag \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Datalist: A form element that provides an auto-complete feature on a web page \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Video: Allows developers to embed videos on their website \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Header tag: Makes it easier to define and find the top and bottom sections of a page \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Picture: Allows you to enter an image and different source tags \par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Inline elements: Helps to keep code up to mark \par
\b Other new elements in HTML5 include: \par
\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Dynamic page support\par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Inline elements\par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 TAG\par
\b\fs28 2. \f1 How to embed audio and video in a webpage?\par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\fs28 To add audio and video to an HTML page, you can use the <audio> and <video> tags. You can also add controls, such as play, pause, and volume, with additional attributes. \par
\b\fs24 Here are some other ways to embed audio and video in a webpage: \par
\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Use the object tag: This tag is used to embed most types of media.\par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Use a sound hosting site: Upload the file to a sound hosting site, such as SoundCloud or Mixcloud, and receive an HTML embed code. Then, copy and paste the embed code into the web page's code or WYSIWYG site editor.\par
\b\f1\bullet  \b0\f0 Use the embed code: Find the video, click the "Share" button, and then click "Embed". Copy the embed code and paste it into the code of your site.\par
\fs28 The <audio> tag supports Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Edge in three audio formats: MP3, WAV, and OGG. The <video> tag supports MP4, WebM, and Ogg in all modern browsers. \par
You can also customize the audio and video playback experience by setting options such as autoplay, preload, and loop. \par
\b 3. \f1 Semantic element in HTML5?\par
\f0 Ans. \b0\fs24\par
\b\f1\fs28 In HTML there are some semantic elements that can be used to define different parts of a web page:  \par
\b0 <article>\f0  , \f1 <aside>\f0  , \f1 <details>\f0  , \f1 <figcaption>\f0  , \f1 <figure>\f0  , \f1 <footer>\f0  , \f1 <header>\f0  , \f1 <main>\f0  , \f1 <mark>\f0  , \f1 <nav>\f0  , \f1 <section>\f0  , \f1 <summary>\f0  , \f1 <time>\b\par
\f0 4. \f1 Canvas and SVG tags\par
\f0 Ans. \par
\b0\fs24 SVG and Canvas are HTML5 APIs that are used to create graphics on the web. SVG is used to create vector-based graphics, while Canvas can render both vector and raster graphics. \par
\b Here are some differences between SVG and Canvas: \par
\f1\bullet  \f0 SVG\par
\b0 SVG is an XML-based markup language that describes 2D vector graphics. SVG is considered to be more accessible because it supports text. SVG mainly relies on files, whereas canvas mainly uses scripting.\par
\b\f1\bullet  \f0 Canvas\par
\b0 Canvas allows users to draw on the HTML Canvas element via a JavaScript API. Canvas is better for quickly rendering graphics and animations with less control than SVG. Canvas is dependent on Javascript.\par
\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\i\fs40 Module (CSS and CSS 3) -2\b0\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 1. What are the benefits of using CSS ?\par
Ans. 2. \b0\par
\fs26 CSS offers several advantages, including improved website aesthetics, easy updates across multiple pages, faster loading times, and the ability to create responsive designs that adapt to various devices.\par
\b\fs24 Advantages of CSS :-\par
\b0\f1\fs26\bullet  \f0 Consistency and Global Styling. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 Easier to Maintain and Efficient Updates. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 Time-Saving and Faster Loading Times. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 Enhanced Design Options and Responsive Design. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 SEO-Friendly. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 Accessibility and Print-Friendly Pages. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 Platform Independence and Device Compatibility. ...\par
\f1\bullet\f0\lang16393  \lang1033 CSS Minification and Page Load Efficiency.\par
\b\fs28 2. What are the disadvantages of CSS ?\par
Ans. \par
\fs26 Disadvantages of CSS\par
\b0\fs24 Browser Compatibility. CSS may render differently in various web browsers, leading to inconsistencies in the visual presentation. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Learning Curve. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Lack of Security. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Limited Layout Control. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Performance Impact. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Overriding Styles. ...\par
\f1\fs26\bullet\f0\lang16393  \fs24\lang1033 Maintenance Challenges.\par
\b\fs28 3. What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3 ?\line Ans. \par
\b0\i\fs24 The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 has been split into different sections, called modules. Each of these modules is making its way through the W3C in various stages of the recommendation process.\par
\b\i0 CSS:\b0  CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheet. Its main objective is to provide styling and fashion to the web page. CSS provides color, layout, background, font, and border properties. CSS features allow better content accessibility, enhanced flexibility, and control, as well as the specification of the characteristics of presentation.\par
\b CSS3:\b0  CSS3 stands for Cascading Style Sheet level 3, which is the advanced version of CSS. It is used for structuring, styling, and formatting web pages. Several new features have been added to CSS3 and it is supported by all modern web browsers. The most important feature of CSS3 is the splitting of CSS standards into separate modules that are simpler to learn and use.\par
\b\fs28 4. Name a few CSS style components\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 1. css borders\par
2. css margin\par
3. css padding\par
4. css height/width\par
5. css model\par
6. css font\par
7. css icon\par
8. css list\par
9. css table\par
10. css display\par
11. css position\par
12. css overflow\par
13. navigation bar\par
14. drop down\par
15. css align\par
16. css colors\par
17. css backgrounds\par
\b\fs28 5. What do you understand by CSS opacity ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.\par
opacity applies to the element as a whole, including its contents, even though the value is not inherited by child elements. Thus, the element and its children all have the same opacity relative to the element's background, even if they have different opacities relative to one another.\par
If text opacity is adjusted, it is important to ensure that the contrast ratio between the color of the text and the background the text is placed over is high enough that people experiencing low vision conditions will be able to read the content of the page.\par
\b\fs28 6. How can the background color of an element be changed ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.\par
\b\fs28\lang16393 7. How can image repetition of the backup be controlled ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image. The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.\par
\b\fs28 8. What is the use of the background-position property ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 The background-position CSS property sets the initial position for each background image. The position is relative to the position layer set by background-origin.\par
\b\fs28 9. Which property controls the image scroll in the background ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 In this article, we will discuss the property that is used to control the scrolling of an image in the background. The background-attachment property in CSS is used to specify the kind of attachment of the background image with respect to its container. It can be set to scroll or make it remain fixed. It can be applied to all HTML elements.\par
\b\fs28 10. Why should background and color be used as separate properties ?\par
Ans.\par
\fs26 There are two reasons behind this:-\b0\par
It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.\par
Color is an inherited property while the background is not. So this can make confusion further.\par
\b\fs28 11. How to center block elements using CSS1 ?\par
Ans.\b0\fs26\par
To center block elements, we primarily rely on the `margin` property. Since block elements span the full width of their container, we adjust their margins to position them horizontally and vertically. Notably, the `text-align: center` property doesn\rquote t center block elements; it only affects non-block or inline-block elements.\par
\b\fs28 12. How to maintain the CSS specifications ?\par
Ans.\par
\b0\f1\fs26\lang1033 The Specification defines how CSS properties should be implemented by browser vendors along with detailed algorithms, code samples and tabular information.\par
\b The Specification also include:\b0\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 The syntax and data types of the language\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 Detailed explanation on CSS Selectors\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 How you can assign values to properties\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 The Cascade (the "C" in CSS)\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 How inheritance works\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 The Box Model e.t.c\par
Explanation on some of these topic are short and easy to understand while others are explained in great detail.\par
The Specification also specify how stylesheets can be included in your web document and how to target specific media e.g print or screen.\par
The CSS Specification prior to CSS3 was a single Specification, CSS3 on the other hand is divided into Modules which are Independent Specifications that can be worked on by different author(s) at different paces, that's why we have Selector Level 3 Specification, CSS Color 4, CSS Backgrounds and so on. Some of these modules are revisions of CSS2.1, and some are newly created, but all fall under the banner of CSS3.\par
The Specification should be your guide if you need to understand how a specific property or feature works behind the scene and how it works with other CSS properties. And if you are comfortable reading algorithms you won't get bored reading the CSS Specification.\par
\b\f0\fs28\lang16393 13. What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page ?\par
Ans.\par
\b0\fs26 CSS may be added to HTML in three different ways. To style a single HTML element on the page, use Inline CSS in a style attribute. By adding CSS to the head section of our HTML document, we can embed an internal stylesheet. We can also connect to an external stylesheet that separates our CSS from our HTML.\par
\b\i\f1\fs24\lang1033 Inline CSS\par
\b0\i0\fs26 Style rules can be applied to individual HTML elements using inline CSS. Inlining CSS is the process of embedding CSS into an HTML file rather than using an external CSS file. Because inline CSS only allows us to apply a single style to one HTML element, it's only useful for establishing unique properties. Inline CSS is advantageous since it decreases the number of files that the browser must download before the web page can be shown. The browser loads an HTML file first, then downloads the CSS file when using external CSS. We only need to download one HTML file instead of two using inline CSS, which speeds up the process.\par
\b\i\f0\fs24\lang16393 Internal CSS\par
\b0\i0\fs26 Internal CSS \f1\lang1033 is one of the most popular CSS forms for updating, customizing, and modifying a single web page's unique styles. You can use the internal CSS by integrating the <style> element in the <head> section of a HTML web page. \par
\b\i\fs24 External CSS\par
\b0\i0\fs26 External CSS is one of the most often used CSS forms for updating, styling, and adjusting the different styles in a large number of HTML web pages at the same time. There are two ways to include an external style sheet in an HTML document. One method is to use the <link> tag in the HTML document head. Another option is to use a combination of external CSS functions and integrated CSS. \par
\b\f0\fs28\lang16393 14. What is embedded style sheets ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 An embedded style sheet is declared within the <head> element of an XHTML document. It applies to the whole document, rather than just one element. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule.\par
CSS stylesheets are used to describe the presentation of a document written in HTML. It provides color, layout, background, font, and border properties while also allowing better content accessibility, enhanced flexibility, and control, as well as the specification of the characteristics of presentation. CSS stylesheets can be applied to an HTML document in 3 ways \f1\endash  inline styles, embedded stylesheet, and external stylesheet.\par
Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place. This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document. Embedded style sheets are particularly useful for HTML documents that have unique style requirements from the rest of the documents in your project. However, if the styles need to be applied across multiple documents, you should link to an external style sheet instead of using individual embedded style sheets. Using embedded stylesheets holds a distinct advantage over inline styles which only allow you to address one HTML element at a time. \par
\b\f0\fs28 15. What are the external style sheets ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.\par
The external style sheet is generally used when you want to make changes on multiple pages. It is ideal for this condition because it facilitates you to change the look of the entire web site by changing just one file.\par
It uses the <link> tag on every pages and the <link> tag should be put inside the head section.\par
\b\fs28 16. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets ?\par
Ans. \b0\fs26\par
\b\i Advantages of External CSS\par
\b0\i0\f1\lang1033\bullet\f0\lang16393  Improved maintainability and code organization.\par
\f1\lang1033\bullet\f0\lang16393  Enhanced reusability across multiple HTML files.\par
\f1\lang1033\bullet\f0\lang16393  Efficient caching and faster page load times.\par
\f1\lang1033\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 one change to the style sheet will change all linked pages.\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 you can create classes of styles that can then be used on many different HTML elements.\par
consistent look and feel across multiple web pages.\b\i\f0\lang16393\par
Disadvantages of External CSS:\par
\b0\i0\f1\lang1033\bullet\f0\lang16393  Pages may not be rendered correctly until the external CSS is loaded.\f1\lang1033\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 Uploading or linking to multiple CSS files may increase your site\rquote s download time, affecting its overall performance.\par
\bullet\f0\lang16393  \f1\lang1033 Large-scale projects may face versioning and caching challenges when using external CSS\par
\b\f0\fs28\lang16393 17. What is the meaning of the CSS selector ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.\par
In CSS, selectors are used to target the HTML elements on our web pages that we want to style. There are a wide variety of CSS selectors available, allowing for fine-grained precision when selecting elements to style. In this article and its sub-articles we'll run through the different types in great detail, seeing how they work.\par
\b\fs28 18. What are the media types allowed by CSS ?\par
Ans. \par
\i\fs26 6 Media types allowed by css\f1\lang1033\par
\b0\i0\f0\lang16393 1. Extra Small \{ Screen Size < 576 PX \}\par
2. Small \{ Screen Size  768 PX >=  576 PX \}\par
3. Medium \{ Screen Size 992 PX >= 768 PX \}\par
4. Large \{ Screen Size 1200 PX >= 992 PX \}\par
5. Extra Large \{ Screen Size 1400 PX >= 1200 PX \}\par
6. Extra Small \{ Screen Size = 1400 PX \}\par
\b\fs28 19. What is the rule set ?\par
Ans. \par
\b0\fs26 A collection of rules or signatures that network traffic or system activity is compared against to determine an action to take\f1\emdash such as forwarding or rejecting a packet, creating an alert, or allowing a system event.\f0\par
CSS rulesets\par
Each (valid) declaration block is preceded by one or more comma-separated selectors, which are conditions selecting some elements of the page. A selector list and an associated declarations block, together, are called a ruleset, or often a rule.\f1\lang1033\par
\b\f0\fs28\lang16393 20. Create Layouts\par
Ans. \b0\fs26\par
<!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html lang="en">\par
\par
<head>\par
    <meta charset="UTF-8">\par
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">\par
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">\par
    <title>Document</title>\par
    <style>\par
        * \{\par
            margin: 0;\par
            padding: 0;\par
        \}\par
\par
        section \{\par
            /* background-color: darkseagreen; */\par
        \}\par
\par
        .conteiner \{\par
            width: 1300px;\par
            margin: 50px auto;\par
        \}\par
\par
        .box \{\par
            background-color: white;\par
            border: 1px solid;\par
            width: 30%;\par
            text-align: center;\par
            padding-bottom: 20px;\par
        \}\par
\par
        .box img \{\par
            width: 100%;\par
        \}\par
\par
        h1 \{\par
            text-align: center;\par
        \}\par
\par
        h2 \{\par
            background-color: black;\par
            padding: 50px;\par
            color: white;\par
        \}\par
\par
        button \{\par
            padding:3px 15px;\par
            font-size: 13px;\par
        \}\par
\par
        .btns \{\par
            margin-right: 100px;\par
            margin-left: -100px;\par
            padding-top: 15px;\par
        \}\par
\par
        .row,\par
        .row2 \{\par
            display: flex;\par
            justify-content: space-between;\par
            margin-bottom: 29px;\par
        \}\par
    </style>\par
</head>\par
\par
<body>\par
\par
    <section>\par
        <div class="conteiner">\par
            <div class="row">\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
            </div>\par
            <div class="row2">\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
                <div class="box">\par
                    <div>\par
                        <h2>Thumbnail</h2>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div>\par
                        <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit. Officia maiores suscipit distinctio\par
                            harum nihil perferendis quidem, iste nisi quos voluptatem minus odio expedita.</p>\par
                    </div>\par
                    <div class="btns">\par
                        <button>View</button>\par
                        <button>Edit</button>\par
                    </div>\par
                </div>\par
            </div>\par
        </div>\par
    </section>\par
\par
</body>\par
\par
</html>\f1\lang1033\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 